Tools
Languages
Solutions
Support
Company
Store
IntelliJ IDEA
Coming in 2020.2
What's New
Features
Learn
Buy
Download
Capable and Ergonomic IDE for JVM
DOWNLOAD
TAKE A TOUR
ENJOY
PRODUCTIVE JAVA
Every aspect of IntelliJ IDEA has been designed to maximize developer productivity.

Together, intelligent coding assistance and ergonomic design make development not only productive but also enjoyable.

TAKE A TOUR

Deep intelligence
After IntelliJ IDEA has indexed your source code, it offers a blazing fast and intelligent experience by giving relevant suggestions in every context: instant and clever code completion, on-the-fly code analysis, and reliable refactoring tools.

Out-of-the-box experience
Mission-critical tools such as integrated version control systems and a wide variety of supported languages and frameworks are all to hand — no plugin hassle included.



Smart code completion
While the basic completion suggests names of classes, methods, fields, and keywords within the visibility scope, the smart completion suggests only those types that are expected in the current context.


Framework-specific assistance
While IntelliJ IDEA is an IDE for Java, it also understands and provides intelligent coding assistance for a large variety of other languages such as SQL, JPQL, HTML, JavaScript, etc., even if the language expression is injected into a String literal in your Java code.


Productivity boosters
The IDE predicts your needs and automates the tedious and repetitive development tasks, so you can stay focused on the big picture.

Developer ergonomics
In every design and implementation decision that we make, we keep in mind the risk of interrupting the developer's flow and do our best to eliminate or minimize it.

The IDE follows your context and brings up the corresponding tools automatically.

Unobtrusive intelligence
The coding assistance in IntelliJ IDEA is not about only the editor: it helps you stay productive when dealing with other aspects as well: e.g. filling a field, searching over a list of elements; accessing a tool window; or toggling a setting, etc.



65% of Java developers choose IntelliJ IDEA
Built-in tools and
supported frameworks
Built-in tools
Built-in tools
Build tools
Version control
HTTP Client
Profiling tools
Decompiler
Coverage
Database tools/SQL
JVM languages
JVM languages
Java
Scala
Groovy
Kotlin
Enterprise frameworks
Enterprise frameworks
Spring
Java EE
Micronaut
Quarkus
Helidon
Play2
Grails
Mobile development
Mobile development
Android
React Native
Cordova
Ionic
Web development
Web development
JavaScript
TypeScript
HTML and CSS
Node.js
Angular
React
Vue.js
Discover all features

Java 14
This new version adds support for Java 14, including code insight and smart features for Records and Pattern matching of instanceof.


Dataflow analysis in the debugger
The debugger can now predict and alert you to possible exceptions and true / always false conditions based on the current state of the program’s execution.


Frameworks and technologies
IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate has enhanced its support for Spring WebFlux, many microservices frameworks, RxJava, OpenAPI, the HTTP Client, and Selenium.

AND MUCH MORE…
IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate	IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition
Java, Kotlin, Groovy, Scala		
Android		
Maven, Gradle, sbt		
Git, SVN, Mercurial		
Debugger		
Profiling tools		
Spring, Java EE, Micronaut, Quarkus, Helidon, and more		
Swagger, Open API Specifications		
JavaScript, TypeScript		
Database Tools, SQL		
Compare editions
Email me the link
Free trial
Email me the link
Free, open-source

Learning or teaching programming?
Try IntelliJ IDEA Edu with special support for learners and educators!

Download
.exe
Free, open-source
Tell me about new product features as they come out

Email

By submitting this form, I agree that my name, email address, and location data may be used by JetBrains to send me newsletters, including commercial communications, and to process my personal data for this purpose. I agree that JetBrains may process said data using third-party services for this purpose in accordance with the JetBrains Privacy Policy. I understand that I can revoke this consent at any time in my profile. In addition, an unsubscribe link is included in each email.
Submit
Follow us
Community forum
Bug and issue tracker
IntelliJ IDEA blog
Plugin repository
@IntelliJIDEA on Twitter
Facebook
YouTube

Privacy & Security | Terms of Use | Trademarks | Legal | Genuine tools
Copyright © 2000-2020 JetBrains s.r.o.
Developed with drive and IntelliJ IDEA
Malaysia
English
